The first thing we're gonna need
to do is set up an Apollo server.
And we're gonna do that by creating a new
module Apollo-server,ts in the source
folder of the server sub-project,
I'm going to go ahead and do that now.
And then the contents of the file
should be everything below.
And we're gonna paste this in and
then walk through this file and
describe exactly what it
is we're dealing with here.
So I'm gonna go in here,
Apolloserver.ts and paste.
Okay, so, a lot going on here and I'm just
gonna create a little breathing room.
So we're building a function, it looks
like it takes in a database of some sort
an HTTP server and an express application.
So, this database is necessary
because we want to attach this
database eventually to
something called a context.
And this is just a little
object that's for convenience,
available to anywhere that
we're fetching data, right?
It's almost like making this globally
available to our data fetching code, and
this will be much more clear later.
We're not using it for now that's why
we're prepending it with an underscore,
little pro tip here.
TypeScript if you have
no unused parameters,
compiler option enabled,
it will light up things like this, right?
This thing is declared but its value
is never read, prepending it with
an underscore, tells TypeScript to
kind of, don't worry about it, right?
So, this comes from other languages
where this is a language feature, and
it's easy to spot these as unused.
So, that's why we're using
an underscore here, and when we use it,
we'll delete that underscore.
All right,
now we have this typedefs thing.
So, let's get into that last, but I'll
tell you that this is the GraphQL schema,
and we're gonna talk about
what that means independently.
So, I'll collapse that for
a moment, but just for now,
say that it describes the types.
This will become our source of truth for
the types that are going over the wire,
over our network,
that's what this will evolve into.
So, that's this typedef variable, and
then we're creating an Apollo server,
passing in our typedefs and
we're installing a plugin that
effectively lets us wire this thing
up with express as a middleware.
So, that's why we're using this
Apollo server express package here.
We're starting up GraphQL, like starting
up the Apollo server, and then calling
this apply middleware function which kind
of installs it onto the main express app.
And remember,
that's what passed into here.
So ultimately, what we're doing is
we're creating an express app somewhere
else wherever we're using this function,
and
we're passing it in to
create Apollo server.
And then this function we're looking at
here, it'll instantiate an Apollo server,
it'll install the Apollo server
onto the express app and
then it'll return the Apollo server
because we might need that somewhere else.
Now, let's talk about this thing here,
the GraphQL schema and
it's in tagged template literal with GQL.
And that's important here because
there are a bunch of nice set
of VS code extensions that light
this up syntax highlighted give
you a little autocompletes if
you use this GQL name here.
It also happens to do some other
stuff that processes the string.
So, what are we dealing with here?
Well, first off, this is equivalent to a
set of interfaces in the TypeScript world.
And you can see down here,
we have a type called user, and
we have a type called suggestion, these
are the things that we'll start with.
Now, also there's this type called query.
Query is special in the GraphQL world.
This is kind of the entry point
when we're asking for data, so
in the rest world, you can think
of this as your get requests.
So, here we have something where it's
like a user, someone's asking for
the current user.
And down here we have something that says,
I want an array of suggestions
in the in the Twitter UI by the way,
this is the suggestions area,
this little who to follow thing,
and we see just one item in there.
Great, and so we can see like current
user, this returns a user, suggestions and
then we see the square brackets here,
seems arrayish.
This is actually the way to
denote an array of suggestions,
just wrap it in square brackets.
There's no concept of a tuple in GraphQL,
so that's why, like,
you might look at this if you're
using your TypeScript intuition here,
this looks like a tuple of length one,
with one suggestion, no,
this is the way GraphQL represents a race.
And then we have these
exclamation points here.
So, in TypeScript, we use question
marks to indicate optional properties.
By default, things are optional
in the Graph QL world, and
by that I mean their nullable fields,
they could come back no.
There is no current user, maybe that means
that we're not logged in, it could be.
An exclamation mark is the way we
say something is non-nullable.
So, it's sort of an inversion of the way
you think about this, you don't have to
say when something is optional ,you
have to say when something is required.
When the types should represent
that this is always here,
I got a user back, I will have an ID,
I will have a name, right?
Well, we'll end up with some nullable
things that are missing this
exclamation mark later on.
And often these are things that we want,
they're the expensive things to assemble.
In our example of that doctor UI,
remember we might have to hit someone's
calendar to see if they're busy or not.
That would be a good example of something
that you would make nullable because
if nobody asks for it, you wanna be able
to just say, like, don't worry about it.
We're not going to get that,
we'll get your information back to
you fast rather than comprehensive.
All right, now, finally,
like I have two exclamation marks here,
I have a suggestion, bang, and then
that's inside this little array notation,
and then I have another
bang outside of it.
What does this mean?
So, first off, we can look at this and
this means the user object will
always be there, it will not be a no,
and this is the equivalent
exclamation mark there, right?
I'm going to give you an array back,
it's never going to be missing.
What this inner one means is that,
you will find no nulls within the array.
So, it's about whether members
of the collection can be null,
versus the collection itself being null.
And you have two independent,
non-nullable operators there to indicate
those two different things
>> But it could still be empty, right?
>> The question is,
could it still be empty?
Absolutely, you can still have
an empty array that contains no nulls.
That meets both requirements, no nulls
in the array and the array is present.
That means that in our back-end code, even
if somebody did not ask for suggestions,
well, it doesn't make that sense in this
case because it's a top level query.
But let's say,
what if we had this done here?
Another one, right?
Like a user has suggestions, it's like
it's a has many relationship here.
In this case,
anytime we marshal the data together,
we gather together data to say,
I've fetched a user back, and
even what was requested was like these
three fields here and nothing else.
We wouldn't be obligated to make this
an empty array, like it something
has to be there in our back-end code,
if we say it is non-nullable.
So, that's something you have to think
about carefully and we'll get to that
when we start dealing with relationships,
sort of a tight coupling between,
can we save time by avoiding
putting this data together?
And is it possible for this field to
be missing, like null on the record?
They're sort of interrelated
in this situation.
>> And what enforces that requirements and
I guess?
>> It's a very good question.
What enforces that requirement?
In our example today, two things,
at compile time you will have type
information that is built from the schema,
and you will have TypeScript
doing the enforcing.
At runtime the GraphQL infrastructure
that's part of Apollo server,
that will actually validate that
your schema matches the code that
is aligned with your schema, and
that you're returning the right thing.
And we're gonna hit some of those errors.
But there is some help because there's
such a strong opinion about how data is
shaped and how we ask for data.
There is a validation thing that
helps us ensure we have everything
wired up correctly.
Well, we will hit that problem and
then solve it, it is planned,
my usual style of failure
driven development.
Okay, so
that's basically all we have here.
We talked about arrays,
we talked about this exclamation mark.
One thing I didn't talk about yet
was sort of the primitive types.
So, you have strings, you have Booleans,
you have numbers, actually
you have an int type here, we could
do this and it would be totally fine.
Yep.
So, I should not leave it like that
though, that's asking for problems.
These are your primitive entities,
you're missing a couple things,
like you don't have a date, but
you should think of these as mapping one
to one with what you could put in JSON.
Now you can define your own entities,
right?
These are called scalers by the way, you
can define your own scalers if you like,
we're not gonna get into that,
I would leave that to a course
dedicated to GraphQL.
We're more focused on compatibility
between GrappQL and Typescript, and
how you can get the benefits of
everything working together.
That hopefully describes everything
you're seeing here, there are no
interfaces everything sort of begins type
so far, so we've created this one file.
Let's continue on with our instructions.
So, hopefully we understand everything
that's going on in this code we just
copied and pasted.
Okay, so in the entry point for
the server code, which is index.ts,
we're gonna add some imports.
So, let's go ahead and do that.
Imports go at the top, and
we're gonna add the following
two lines immediately below
the static route, right?
This is where the images are served up the
fav icon, all the just the static files.
So, we're gonna put this below
where we see the static stuff.
That is here.
And we're using the imports
now which is great.
And then there's one last thing we're
gonna do just to make our life easier.
And it's a small little change in a
logging line here that will give us a nice
clickable link to a convenient thing,
this will take us to the Apollo dev tools.
So, instead of this empty string
we're gonna replace it with Apollo
server GraphQL path.
Paste, okay.
And I believe that should be
enough to get us up and running.
We go all the way down,
I don't see any errors,
I already see this string here
/GraphQL that wasn't there before.
So, I'm gonna click on
the second link localhost
3000/GraphQL and
you should see something like this,
so this is the Apollo's
studio entry point.
And I can hit query my server, you can see
we're still running on local host here,
and now we'll be off local host but
we're actually we're gonna
still be hitting our own API.
So, you should see yourself
looking at something like this.
You won't see this query here,
this is sort of left over from
when I was testing things out.
But this is where you document your API,
where you can explore it,
we're gonna be using
this extensively today.
And, I wanna just try something,
let's see what happens.
I'm gonna, like,
on the side thing here, the side rail,
I'm gonna say, I wanna make a query,
I wanna query for
current user, and
it's giving me fields to pick from.
Let me just ask for
the current users name, and
let's fire this off, and
we get an error message.
So, this is an answer to the question
like, who's doing the validating for me?
We can see this is at runtime,
we're getting some good feedback here,
cannot return null for
a non-nullable field, query.current user.
But another way to say this is,
we've not implemented anything
that will return a current user,
all we've done is like, set up the GraphQL
server with nothing wired up to it yet.
So, it's gonna return null for
everything no matter what we asked for.
But this is an example of it's kind of
type checking happening at runtime.